<lea:title>The Journey Continues</lea:title>
<lea:author file-as="Pech, Eduard [Eduard Pech]">Eduard Pech</lea:author>
<lea:rights><p>The work quoted in <em><lea:link>The Journey Continues</lea:link></em>
  originally appeared in Amazing Science Fiction Stories in 1960.
  Extensive research found no evidence that the U.S. copyright for this publication
  was renewed.</p></lea:rights>





<lea:image source="the-journey-continues.jpg"><lea:caption/></lea:image>

<h1 class="heading">The Journey Continues</h1>

<p class="heading"><em>by Mystery Author</em></p>

<p>Welcome, fellow astronauts, to a glimpse of what awaits in the next issue of “The Pitch Science Fiction”, brought to you by Logophilia. Prepare to venture beyond the stars as we embark on the next chapter of our cosmic odyssey. The story that follows is a tantalizing preview, offering only a glimpse of the adventures yet to unfold in the pages of our upcoming publication. Please note that this excerpt is incomplete, leaving much to the imagination until the full tale is revealed. Join us as we journey into the unknown, where the mysteries of the universe await discovery and the boundaries of imagination are pushed ever further. Get ready to soar to new heights—our voyage continues, and the wonders of the cosmos await.</p>

<p>About the mystery author in this issue: A master of wit and imagination, this author spins tales where humor, irony, and the strange possibilities of the future collide. With stories that challenge expectations, explore the quirks of human and sometimes alien nature, and reveal the absurdities of society through clever twists, this writer’s work entertains while provoking thought. Every tale brims with unpredictable situations, playful inventions, and sparkling ingenuity, leaving readers both amused and astonished. If the name has not yet surfaced in your memory, it will be revealed in the next issue—until then, enjoy the excerpt and savor the distinctive craft at work.</p>

<lea:section class="heading">An Amazing Story by Mystery Author</lea:section>

<p>The last vibration died away, and the floor beneath them gave a slight lurch. The prisoners, still silent and dazed, were formed into a long line and marched out of the auditorium. Flanked by guards, they went down a corridor which stretched on interminably. From it, 402 began to get some idea of the size of the ship.</p>

<p>Far ahead, he could see a patch of sunlight which shone brightly against the pale illumination of the corridor. His section of the long shuffling line<span id="anchor-8"></span> reached the sunlight, and 402 saw that it came from an open hatchway through which the prisoners were passing.</p>

<p>In his turn, 402 went through the hatchway, climbed down a long stairway, and found himself on solid ground. He was standing in an open, sunlit square. Guards were forming the disembarked prisoners into files; on all sides, 402 could see a crowd of spectators watching.</p>

<p>A loudspeaker voice boomed, “Answer when your number is called. Your identity will now be revealed to you. Answer promptly when your number is called.”</p>

<p>402 felt weak and very tired. Not even his identity could interest him now. All he wanted to do was lie down, to sleep, to have a chance to think about his situation. He looked around and took casual note of the huge starcraft behind him, of the guards, the spectators. Overhead, he saw black dots moving against a blue sky. At first he thought they were birds. Then, looking closer, he saw they were guardships. He wasn’t particularly interested in them.</p>

<p>“Number 1! Speak out!”</p>

<p>“Here,” a voice answered.</p>

<p>“Number 1, your name is Wayn Southholder. Age 34, blood type A-L2, Index AR-431-C. Guilty of treason.”</p>

<p>When the voice had finished, a loud cheer came up from the crowd. They were applauding the prisoner’s traitorous actions, and welcoming him to Omega.</p>

<p>The names were read down the list, and 402, drowsy in the sunshine, dozed on his feet and<span id="anchor-9"></span> listened to the crimes of murder, credit theft, deviationalism, and mutantism. At last his number was called.</p>

<p>“Number 402.”</p>

<p>“Here.”</p>

<p>“Number 402, your name is Will Barrent. Age 27, blood type O-L3, Index JX-221-R. Guilty of murder.”</p>

<p>The crowd cheered, but 402 scarcely heard them. He was trying to accustom himself to the idea of having a name. A real name instead of a number. Will Barrent. He hoped he wouldn’t forget it. He repeated the name to himself over and over again, and almost missed the last announcement from the ship’s loudspeaker.</p>

<p>“The new men are now released upon Omega. You will be given temporary housing at Square A-2. Be cautious and circumspect in your words and actions. Watch, listen, and learn. The law requires me to tell you that the average life expectancy on Omega is approximately three Earth years.”</p>

<p>It took a while for those last words to take effect on Barrent. He was still contemplating the novelty of having a name. He hadn’t considered any of the implications of being a murderer on an underworld planet.</p>
