<p>The <lea:link to="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rule_of_the_shorter_term">rule of shorter term</lea:link> applies to the following countries and regions:</p>

<blockquote>
  <p>Albania, Algeria, Andorra (if public domain in the country of origin on the date the transitional provision entered force, 1999), Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia (if public domain in the country of origin on the date article 45 entered force, 2006), Bangladesh, Belarus (while party to Berne Convention, 2008), Bhutan, Canada (for foreign works of joint authorship, except for countries party to the Canada–United States–Mexico Agreement, i.e. U.S. and Mexico), China (if public domain in the country of origin on the date of commencement of the Act, 2010), Dominican Republic, EU members (with the exception of Germany, and only towards non-European Union members), Guatemala, Guinea-Bissau, Honduras, Hong Kong, India (for countries designated in <lea:link to="https://www.wipo.int/wipolex/en/legislation/details/22949">official schedule</lea:link>), Israel, Japan, Macau, New Zealand (if public domain in the country of origin on the date of commencement of the Act, 15 Dec 1994), Norway, Pakistan (for countries designated in <lea:link to="https://www.wipo.int/wipolex/en/legislation/details/3482">official schedule</lea:link>), Russian Federation, Singapore, Suriname, Taiwan, Tanzania, Thailand, Timor-Leste, United Kingdom (unless simultaneously published in the United Kingdom).</p>
</blockquote>

<p>Furthermore, the rule of shorter term also applies to all overseas territories of the countries where the rule of shorter term applies:</p>

<blockquote>
  <p>The Kingdom of Denmark: Faroe Islands; Greenland.</p>

  <p>Finland: Åland is an autonomous and demilitarised region of Finland.</p>

  <p>Overseas France: Clipperton Island; French Guiana; French Polynesia; French Southern and Antarctic Lands; Guadeloupe; Martinique; Mayotte; New Caledonia; Réunion; Saint Barthélemy; Saint Martin; Saint Pierre and Miquelon; Wallis and Futuna.</p>

  <p>Constituent countries of the Kingdom of the Netherlands: Aruba; Curaçao; Sint Maarten.</p>

  <p>The Realm of New Zealand: Cook Islands; Niue; Ross Dependency; Tokelau.</p>

  <p>Dependent territories of Norway: Bouvet Island; Queen Maud Land; Peter I Island.</p>

  <p>The Crown Dependencies of the United Kingdom: the Bailiwick of Jersey; the Bailiwick of Guernsey; the Isle of Man. The 14 British Overseas Territories: Akrotiri and Dhekelia; Anguilla; Bermuda; British Antarctic Territory; British Indian Ocean Territory; British Virgin Islands; Cayman Islands; Falkland Islands; Gibraltar; Montserrat; Pitcairn Islands; Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha; South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands; Turks and Caicos Islands.</p>

  <p>Insular Areas of the United States and Freely Associated States: American Samoa; Guam; the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands; the Republic of the Marshall Islands; the Federated States of Micronesia; the Republic of Palau; Puerto Rico; the U.S. Virgin Islands.</p>
</blockquote>
