<lea:title>Charged with Suicide</lea:title>
<lea:author file-as="Skrinitsa, Daria [Daria Skrinitsa]">Daria Skrinitsa</lea:author>
<lea:rights><p><em><lea:link>Charged with Suicide</lea:link></em>
    by <lea:link>Daria Skrinitsa</lea:link> is copyright 2026 by Daria Skrinitsa.
    Based on "обвиняется в самоубистве," copyright 2009 by Daria Skrinitsa.
    Used by permission.</p></lea:rights>
<lea:blurb/>
<lea:subject>Science fiction</lea:subject>
<lea:subject>Short stories</lea:subject>






<lea:image source="xxx.jpg"/>

<h1 class="heading">Charged with Suicide</h1>

<p class="heading"><em>by <lea:link>Daria Skrinitsa</lea:link></em></p>

<lea:section class="heading">Court Hearing Transcript</lea:section>

<p><strong>Judge:</strong> Case number 16,284 is now in session. Natalia Andreevna Malova stands charged with an especially grave crime against humanity under Article BN-11-a. Order in the court. Prosecutor, you may question the witnesses, experts, defense counsel, and the accused. Defense counsel, you may question the witnesses, experts, the prosecutor, and the accused. Where is the defense counsel? Not present? That’s not my concern; we’ll proceed without him. Experts, you may question the witnesses and the accused. Witnesses, you may question the accused. The accused is not permitted to ask questions. The floor is given to the prosecutor.</p>

<p><strong>Prosecutor:</strong> Thank you, Your Honor. On March 3<sup>rd</sup>, 1412, a case of the highest crime was recorded: suicide. The accused, Natalia Malova, born 1163, took her own life by jumping from the roof of a fourth-level building—that is, from a height of four hundred meters. I request that the court hear the expert testimonies.</p>

<p><strong>Judge:</strong> Granted.</p>

<p><strong>Prosecutor:</strong> I call the Restoration Expert to testify. Tell the court everything you know.</p>

<p><strong>Stanley:</strong> Derrick Stanley, representative of the Bureau of Restoration. I was called in to work on Saturday, March 3<sup>rd</sup>. A second-degree complexity restoration, a fall from height. I can’t exactly say I was restoring a body. No, I was more or less assembling it from a slab of flesh. Furthermore, the woman was pregnant. But I did not restore the fetus. You see, an unborn child can’t be reassembled… Anyway, it was difficult. It took two full days, and I hope for a decent reduction.</p>

<p><strong>Judge:</strong> An additional charge under Article BN-8-a, infanticide, is hereby added to the indictment. Mr. Stanley, you are granted permission to submit a petition for a one-year life reduction.</p>

<p><strong>Stanley:</strong> Thank you, Your Honor. Analysis of this woman’s brain cells indicates that her death was not unexpected. There is also no detectable fear response. The conclusion is obvious.</p>

<p><strong>Prosecutor:</strong> What was the sex of the child?</p>

<p><strong>Stanley:</strong> I don’t know. I didn’t restore it, and based on what remained, it’s difficult to say....</p>

<p><strong>Prosecutor:</strong> Thank you, Mr. Stanley. Please submit the expert report to the court and take your seat. I call the Consciousness Expert to testify.</p>

<p><strong>Stoss:</strong> Herman Stoss, Bureau of Consciousness. On March 3<sup>rd</sup>, Natalia Malova was extracted from the Global Consciousness Stream as deceased and placed into preservation in a reservoir, in accordance with the Soul Preservation Law. You are familiar with the procedure. I must note that at the moment of death, her soul was disfigured by pronounced suicidal lesions. Here is the certificate and a copy of the mentogram. Additionally, an unformed consciousness was extracted from the Stream, presumably belonging to Ms. Malova’s fetus. On March 5<sup>th</sup>, we received a reassembly request from the Bureau of Restoration. The body arrived, and we conducted an identification examination and a soul-body compatibility test, which yielded a one hundred percent match. Simultaneously, we sent an inquiry to the Mortality Control Bureau and were informed that no death permit had been issued for Natalia Malova. This gave us grounds to reassemble the body and soul of the accused and forward the case to law enforcement—specifically, the Department of Unauthorized Deaths. That is all.</p>

<p><strong>Prosecutor:</strong> A question. When was the accused’s last contact with another person prior to the suicide?</p>

<p><strong>Stoss:</strong> According to the mentographic diagram ... let me see ... yes, here it is. The contact was eleven hours before the incident, with an unfamiliar woman. The nature of the conversation was emotionless, businesslike, and brief. I assume it was a saleswoman or a clerk.</p>

<p><strong>Prosecutor:</strong> And before that, is there anything you consider noteworthy?</p>

<p><strong>Stoss:</strong> Hmm ... I believe so. Yes, here: twenty-three hours before her death. A man, a long-term acquaintance... The nature of the conversation was brief, unpleasant, and emotional. Some kind of bad news. Additionally, after this news, the signs of soul lesions intensified.</p>

<p><strong>Prosecutor:</strong> Thank you, Mr. Stoss. Submit all documents to the court and take your seat. I call the Birth Rate Expert to testify.</p>

<p><strong>Aoyama:</strong> Bureau of Birth Control, Aoyama Hiroku. I know the accused well; she visits us frequently. Over the last two hundred years, she has given birth to nine sons and one daughter for us. She has undergone examinations and treatment for mental breakdowns on several occasions. This is related to an accident in her early years. The restoration at that time was an extremely difficult process and resulted in complications. She has a rare complication that we still cannot cure. Natalia lost the ability to bear daughters. She underwent various courses of treatment with different specialists, but every subsequent fetus was male. Professor Stoss was just discussing her contacts. It was me. I informed her of the fetus identification results. When she found out it was another boy... Your Honor, I ask you to consider her situation. It’s not her fault! Medicine simply isn’t at that level yet, you understand…. By law, the right to die is granted to a woman who has borne two daughters. So does that mean Natalia can never die? That burden is immense! Look at how old she is; it’s no wonder her nerves gave way….</p>

<p><strong>Judge:</strong> Your personal opinion is of no interest to the court.</p>

<p><strong>Aoyama:</strong> Yes ... yes. Of course... Here is the restoration certificate, the certificate of complications, treatment results, and fetus identification.</p>

<p><strong>Prosecutor:</strong> Thank you, Mr. Aoyama. Please take your seat. I call the Mortality Expert to testify.</p>

<p><strong>Czyński:</strong> Marek Czyński, Mortality Control Bureau. I am not personally acquainted with the accused, but I am familiar with her case. She submitted two petitions for death, both of which were denied due to her failure to meet the birth quota. Simply put, she must give humanity a second daughter. This is not our whim, but a necessity. You are all aware of the planetary population situation. The human embryo incubation period continues to increase. Humanity is dangerously close to extinction, and Ms. Malova not only fails to provide humanity with a daughter capable of reproduction but also attempts to deprive it of an already living, fertile female—namely, herself. We at the Mortality Control Bureau take an extremely negative view of such individuals and grant no leniency. The quota is the quota, the law is the law! I trust the court will act justly.</p>

<p><strong>Malova:</strong> But I can’t, don’t you understand?!</p>

<p><strong>Judge:</strong> Accused, you have the right only to answer questions. Any further violation of order will result in a harsher sentence.</p>

<p><strong>Prosecutor:</strong> Mr. Czyński, please submit copies of those petitions and verdicts to the court. Thank you. Take your seat. I request that the court hear witness testimonies.</p>

<p><strong>Judge:</strong> Granted.</p>

<p><strong>Prosecutor:</strong> I call Victor Johnson to testify.</p>

<p><strong>Johnson:</strong> I am Victor Johnson, son of Natalia Malova and David Johnson. I am her fourth son. What would you like to know?</p>

<p><strong>Prosecutor:</strong> Do you see the accused often? Do you know her well?</p>

<p><strong>Johnson:</strong> Yes. I visit her every five years, and I know her fairly well.</p>

<p><strong>Prosecutor:</strong> What can you tell us about her mental state?</p>

<p><strong>Johnson:</strong> She’s ... unstable. I saw her a couple of times shortly before she received treatment for her mental health. She cried a lot, stayed silent for long periods. And after another round of treatment, she would become normal again. Anticipating your next question: no matter how many times I visited her, I never heard anything from her about suicide. And to my knowledge, she never attempted it before.</p>

<p><strong>Prosecutor:</strong> Are you acquainted with your sister?</p>

<p><strong>Johnson:</strong> Yes, we met twice. But I barely spoke with her. She received a death authorization about seventy years ago.</p>

<p><strong>Malova:</strong> I don’t want to outlive all my children!</p>

<p><strong>Judge:</strong> Accused! A violation has been recorded in the indictment. The court warned you.</p>

<p><strong>Prosecutor:</strong> Thank you, Mr. Johnson. That will be all. Please take your—</p>

<p><strong>Bailiff:</strong> Your Honor! This is urgent! D’Ébre … has committed suicide!</p>

<p><strong>Judge:</strong> What?</p>

<p><strong>Bailiff:</strong> The defense counsel failed to appear for the hearing because he shot himself!</p>

<p><strong>Judge:</strong> Defense counsel ... shot... I declare a temporary recess!</p>

<hr class="asterism"/>

<p><strong>Judge:</strong> The closed hearings in the case of the suicide of Natalia Andreevna Malova will continue. Prosecutor, you may proceed.</p>

<p><strong>Prosecutor:</strong> Thank you, Your Honor. I call Meredith McNash to testify. Do you know the accused?</p>

<p><strong>McNash:</strong> Yes, I rent a floor from her. I only moved in a month ago and don’t really know her yet, but I noticed right away that something was wrong. She was always pale, always quiet, constantly drinking water, and she wouldn’t look in mirrors. I asked her what was wrong, if I could help, but she turned away and closed the door in my face. And last week, she was walking through the rooms howling like a dog. It gave me the creeps, the way she howled. I was about to go to her, but then she suddenly fell silent. Well, I calmed down and sat down for lunch. You know, I need to eat a lot—I’m expecting a baby, a girl, already pregnant for the fifth year. Then I’ll give birth and can submit a petition. I already have one daughter and three little sons, so the quota is met. But I’m not ready yet; I’m thinking I’ll have a third daughter, and then…</p>

<p><strong>Prosecutor:</strong> Please stick to the point.</p>

<p><strong>McNash:</strong> Yes, yes, sorry. So, I sat down to eat, and suddenly something large flashed past the window! Then a soft thud from below. I got scared, leaned out the window, and down below there was a little red spot. Something just turned over in my heart! I ran downstairs, around the building, and there she was lying…. Only, it wasn’t like her, it was like...</p>

<p><strong>Prosecutor:</strong> Bailiff, bring the witness a glass of water! Thank you, Ms. McNash. Please take your seat. I ask the court to hear the accused’s statement.</p>

<p><strong>Judge:</strong> Granted.</p>

<p><strong>Prosecutor:</strong> Natalia Andreevna Malova... All the evidence and testimonies are against you; everything has been proven. The mentogram records a suicidal lesion. Brain analysis shows you were prepared for death. At the same time, no signs of fear were detected, and there were no contacts with another person. Consequently, you died intentionally, by your own hand. Do you admit your guilt? I call upon you to answer.</p>

<p><strong>Malova:</strong> I admit that I did it. But there is no guilt in it…. I’m simply tired. I’m tired of this unbearable life. Do you know how old I am? I’ll be two hundred and fifty soon! You damned hundred-year-old youngsters, can you even begin to imagine how tired I am! I want to rest! Not to live, not to carry sons—just to rest! After so many years, my head is bursting with memories…. What is my crime? Haven’t I borne enough children for humanity? One of them is a governor now, the second writes novels, three others have already received death authorizations! Shall I continue? Am I to blame for being hit by an aerocycle? Am I to blame for having this complication? Blame the doctors who couldn’t cure me in two centuries!!! That’s all….</p>

<p><strong>Prosecutor:</strong> Do you understand that you killed not only yourself?</p>

<p><strong>Malova:</strong> Yes…. But I no longer care. One more, one less. I’ve grown sick of these boys…. And all you want from me anyway is daughters!</p>

<p><strong>Judge:</strong> Mr. Giovanni, do you recall?</p>

<p><strong>Prosecutor:</strong> I recall, Your Honor…. Ms. Malova, a few more questions. Were you acquainted with your defense counsel?</p>

<p><strong>Malova:</strong> Yes. Jacques D’Ébre … we worked together for a while—I was an archivist at his law firm. Later, we socialized outside of work.</p>

<p><strong>Prosecutor:</strong> What was your relationship?</p>

<p><strong>Malova:</strong> Good. He was always supportive and understanding. Only he and Hiroku truly understood me!</p>

<p><strong>Prosecutor:</strong> Who was the father of your last child?</p>

<p><strong>Malova:</strong> Not Jacques, if that’s what you’re asking … but he often visited me and asked how the pregnancy was going. The genetic material was obtained from the Bureau of Birth Control. The Gene Pool Department specifically selected a father for my child who had previously fathered only girls. But my illness proved stronger than his genes….</p>

<p><strong>Prosecutor:</strong> What are your thoughts on the crime committed by your defense counsel?</p>

<p><strong>Malova:</strong> I expected it. From the moment of my reassembly until today, he came to my cell every day. And each time, among other things, he said he didn’t want to defend me because it was pointless, even though he believed I was right. He said it was unbearable for him to work on my case. He was always sensitive…. And now... that is all I think.</p>

<p><strong>Prosecutor:</strong> Thank you, Ms. Malova. Please take your seat. Your Honor, I believe everything is clear here.</p>

<p><strong>Judge:</strong> It is clear to me as well. The case of D’Ébre’s suicide will be considered separately. All rise. The court is ready to pronounce the verdict. Natalia Andreevna Malova is found guilty of committing an especially grave crime against humanity under Article BN-11-a, female suicide, and is sentenced to twenty years of life extension following the receipt of a death authorization. Additionally, the accused is found guilty of committing an especially grave crime against humanity under Article BN-8-c, infanticide with no possibility of child personality restoration, and is sentenced to an increased birth quota: one daughter or two sons. Furthermore, the accused is found guilty of disorderly conduct in court and is sentenced to three days of public service. Derrick Stanley is hereby permitted to submit a petition for a one-year life reduction. The sentence takes effect immediately and is not subject to appeal….</p>

<p><strong>Bailiff:</strong> Your Honor!</p>

<p><strong>Judge:</strong> What is it now?</p>

<p><strong>Bailiff:</strong> An urgent message from the Pregnancy Monitoring Center! An error occurred in the files, the accused received someone else’s fetus identification info. Hers was a girl.</p>

<p><strong>Judge:</strong> This increases the severity of the crime. Ms. Malova, you are hereby sentenced to … Ms. Malova! What is she doing? Open her mouth—don’t let her bite her tongue off! Bring water! What is she muttering?</p>

<p><strong>Stoss:</strong> Your Honor, with your permission, allow me to examine her….</p>

<p><strong>Judge:</strong> Yes, quickly.</p>

<p><strong>Stoss:</strong> I'm afraid it's conscientanoma, and judging by the symptoms, a serious case....</p>

<p><strong>Judge:</strong> What does that mean?</p>

<p><strong>Stoss:</strong> An incurable disease. In scientific terms, it’s called soul cancer, or conscientanoma. In common parlance, maternal insanity... It’s not treatable…. If she is allowed to bear children, the children will be mentally unsound. With all due respect to the court, as a mentologist, I recommend euthanasia.</p>

<p><strong>Judge:</strong> Impossible! I can amend the sentence, but I do not have the right to deprive humanity of another individual. Natalia Andreevna Malova is sentenced to serve her life term in public service. The convicted is not to be engaged in intellectual labor. The sentence takes effect immediately and is not subject to appeal. Case closed.</p>
