<lea:title>The Journey Continues</lea:title>
<lea:author file-as="Pech, Eduard [Eduard Pech]">Eduard Pech</lea:author>
<lea:rights><p>Parts of <em><lea:link>The Journey Continues</lea:link></em>
originally appeared in <em>Galaxy Science Fiction</em>, January 1955.
  Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S. copyright on this publication
  was renewed.</p></lea:rights>




<lea:image source="new-jou-01-512.jpg"><lea:caption/></lea:image>

<h1 id="the-journey-continues" title="The Journey Continues" class="heading">The Journey Continues</h1>

<p>Welcome, fellow astronauts, to a glimpse of what awaits in the next issue of “The Pitch Science Fiction”, brought to you by Logophilia. Prepare to venture beyond the stars as we embark on the next chapter of our cosmic odyssey. The story that follows is a tantalizing preview, offering only a glimpse of the adventures yet to unfold in the pages of our upcoming publication. Please note that this excerpt is incomplete, leaving much to the imagination until the full tale is revealed. Join us as we journey into the unknown, where the mysteries of the universe await discovery and the boundaries of imagination are pushed ever further. Get ready to soar to new heights—our voyage continues, and the wonders of the cosmos await.</p>

<p>About the mystery author in this issue: This science fiction luminary was a key figure in the genre’s Golden Age, not just as a prolific author but also as an influential editor. His career spanned over seven decades, during which he co-authored the famous “Heechee” saga, exploring themes of space exploration and alien civilizations. He won multiple Hugo and Nebula awards, and one of his most famous works, “Gateway,” is a classic in speculative fiction. Besides his writing, he was known for his contributions to science fiction magazines and his collaborations with other giants of the field.</p>

<p>If you have not guessed the identity of this mystery author yet, it will be revealed in the next issue.</p>

<lea:section class="heading">An Amazing Story by Mystery Author</lea:section>

<p>The Crystal Cafe was no longer painted red, but the temperature was still up. And they had added piped-in music interspersed with commercials. The advertisements were for Frosty-Flip, Marlin Cigarettes—”They’re sanitized,” the announcer purred—and something called Choco-Bite candy bars that Burckhardt couldn’t remember ever having heard of before. But he heard more about them quickly enough.</p>

<p>While he was waiting for Swanson to show up, a girl in the cellophane skirt of a nightclub cigarette vendor came through the restaurant with a tray of tiny scarlet-wrapped candies.</p>

<p>“Choco-Bites are <em>tangy</em>,” she was murmuring as she came close to his table. “Choco-Bites are <em>tangier</em> than tangy!”</p>

<p>Burckhardt, intent on watching for the strange little man who had phoned him, paid little attention. But as she scattered a handful of the confections over the table next to his, smiling at the occupants, he caught a glimpse of her and turned to stare.</p>

<p>“Why, Miss Horn!” he said.</p>

<p>The girl dropped her tray of candies.</p>

<p>Burckhardt rose, concerned over the girl. “Is something wrong?”</p>

<p>But she fled.</p>

<p>The manager of the restaurant was staring suspiciously at Burckhardt, who sank back in his seat and tried to look inconspicuous. He hadn’t insulted the girl! Maybe she was just a very strictly reared young lady, he thought—in spite of the long bare legs under the cellophane skirt—and when he addressed her, she thought he was a masher.</p>

<p>Ridiculous idea. Burckhardt scowled uneasily and picked up his menu.</p>

<p>“Burckhardt!” It was a shrill whisper.</p>

<p>Burckhardt looked up over the top of his menu, startled. In the seat across from him, the little man named Swanson was sitting, tensely poised.</p>

<p>“Burckhardt!” the little man whispered again. “Let’s get out of here! They’re on to you now. If you want to stay alive, come on!”</p>

<p>There was no arguing with the man. Burckhardt gave the hovering manager a sick, apologetic smile and followed Swanson out. The little man seemed to know where he was going. In the street, he clutched Burckhardt by the elbow and hurried him off down the block.</p>

<p>“Did you see her?” he demanded. “That Horn woman, in the phone booth? She’ll have them here in five minutes, believe me, so hurry it up!”</p>
