<lea:title>About this Publication</lea:title>
<lea:author>Eduard Pech</lea:author>




<h1 class="heading">About this Publication</h1>

<p><em>The following texts are believed to be in the public domain based on publication dates and copyright research. No claim is made to them.</em></p>

<p><a href="TheTunnelUnderTheWorldByFrederikPohl.xhtml" class="text-italic">The Tunnel Under the World</a> by <a href="AboutTheAuthors.xhtml#frederik-pohl">Frederik Pohl</a> originally appeared in <em>Galaxy Science Fiction</em>, January 1955. Extensive research found no evidence that the U.S. copyright for this publication was renewed. The editorial teaser for this story reads: <em>Pinching yourself is no way to see if you are dreaming. Surgical instruments? Well, yes—but a mechanic’s kit is best of all!</em></p>

<p><a href="CosmicStripteaseByHarlanEllison.xhtml" class="text-italic">Cosmic Striptease</a> by <a href="AboutTheAuthors.xhtml#harlan-ellison">Harlan Ellison</a> originally appeared in <em>Fantastic</em>, January 1958. Extensive research found no evidence that the U.S. copyright for this publication was renewed. The editorial teaser for this story reads: <em>A picture is worth a thousand words—especially if they’re Martian words and nobody can understand them. So Mars put on a spectacular for Earth, using the skies as a TV screen. This proved the superiority of their science. But their morals—Wow!</em></p>

<p><a href="IGardenerByAllenKimLang.xhtml" class="text-italic">I, Gardener</a> by <a href="AboutTheAuthors.xhtml#allen-kim-lang">Allen Kim Lang</a> originally appeared in <em>Fantastic</em>, January 1958. Extensive research found no evidence that the U.S. copyright for this publication was renewed. The editorial teaser for this story reads: <em>Can the Great First Law fall? Could the great Dr. Asim—sorry, Ozoneff—have been wrong?</em></p>

<p><a href="ScannersLiveInVainByCordwainerSmith.xhtml" class="text-italic">Scanners Live in Vain</a> by <a href="AboutTheAuthors.xhtml#paul-myron-anthony-linebarger">Paul Myron Anthony Linegarger</a> writing as Cordwainer Smith originally appeared in <em>Fantasy Book</em>, 1950. This story was later included in the first Science Fiction Hall of Fame anthology, and is now regarded as one of Smith’s finest works. <em>Fantasy Book</em> was a semi-professional American science fiction magazine that published eight issues between 1947 and 1951. Extensive research found no evidence that the U.S. copyright for this publication was renewed. The editorial teaser for this story reads: <em>This story deals with science-fiction’s oldest subject—space-travel. Yet the author’s treatment of the subject is so completely different that it makes “SCANNERS” one of the most outstanding stories to appear in any magazine!</em></p>

<p><a href="TheScarletPlagueByJackLondon.xhtml" class="text-italic">The Scarlet Plague</a> by <a href="AboutTheAuthors.xhtml#jack-london">Jack London</a> originally appeared in the 1915 publication by The Macmillan Company. All works by Jack London are in the public domain.</p>

<p><a href="SecondVarietyByPhilipKDick.xhtml" class="text-italic">Second Variety</a> by <a href="AboutTheAuthors.xhtml#philip-k-dick">Philip K. Dick</a> originally appeared in <em>Space Science Fiction</em>, May 1953. Extensive research found no evidence that the U.S. copyright for this publication was renewed. The editorial teaser for this story reads: <em>The claws were bad enough in the first place—nasty, crawling little death-robots. But when they began to imitate their creators, it was time for the human race to make peace—if it could!</em></p>

<p><a href="PygmalionsSpectaclesByStanleyGWeinbaum.xhtml" class="text-italic">Pygmalion’s Spectacles</a> by <a href="AboutTheAuthors.xhtml#stanley-g-weinbaum">Stanley G. Weinbaum</a> originally appeared in <em>A Martian Odyssey and Others</em>, 1949. Extensive research found no evidence that the U.S. copyright for this publication was renewed. Minor spelling and typographical errors have been corrected without note.</p>

<p><a href="TheColourOutOfSpaceByHPLovecraft.xhtml" class="text-italic">The Colour out of Space</a> by <a href="AboutTheAuthors.xhtml#h-p-lovecraft">H. P. Lovecraft</a> originally appeared in <em>Amazing Stories</em>, September 1927. Extensive research found no evidence that the U.S. copyright for this publication was renewed. The editorial teaser for this story reads: <em>Here is a totally different story that we can highly recommend to you. We could wax rhapsodical in our praise, as the story is one of the finest pieces of literature it has been our good fortune to read. The theme is original, and yet fantastic enough to make it rise head and shoulders above many contemporary scientifiction stories. You will not regret having read this marvellous tale.</em></p>

<p><a href="TheSecondShellByJackWilliamson.xhtml" class="text-italic">The Second Shell</a> by <a href="AboutTheAuthors.xhtml#jack-williamson">Jack Williamson</a> originally appeared in <em>Amazing Stories</em>, September 1927. Extensive research found no evidence that the U.S. copyright for this publication was renewed. The editorial teaser for this story reads: <em>By the Author of “The Alien Intelligence,” “The Girl from Mars”⏎Here the well-known author of “The Alien Intelligence” and other thrilling stories presents his latest symphony, a fine piece of aerial fiction.⏎Few authors have Jack Williamson’s knack to pack their stories with so much adventure and with so much imaginative science. And while it may be fantastic today, most of it we know, sooner or later, will have become reality.⏎All scientists for decades have been wondering what the mysterious Heaviside Layer is. Radio engineers know of the Heaviside Layer from its effect on radio waves. It is very much of a fact, yet no one has ever been able to get near it, due to its distance above the surface of the earth, and till we have penetrated it, we cannot be sure what lies above it.⏎We know you will enjoy the present story, which easily bears re-reading from time to time.</em></p>

<p><a href="TheInvisibleMasterByEdmondHamilton.xhtml" class="text-italic">The Invisible Master</a> by <a href="AboutTheAuthors.xhtml#edmond-hamilton">Edmond Hamilton</a> originally appeared in <em>Scientific Detective Monthly</em>, April 1930. Extensive research found no evidence that the U.S. copyright for this publication was renewed. The editorial teaser for this story reads: <em>A thousand alarms are pouring into Police Headquarters! The Invisible Master broods over the city! Who is He? We defy any reader to guess the secret! Even the editorial staff of SCIENTIFIC DETECTIVE MONTHLY was astounded at the conclusion of this scientific yarn. Write and tell us if you were able to foretell the ending.⏎If you were to ask us which, in our opinion, is the greatest scientific detective story of the year, we certainly would pronounce the present story to be that unusual gem.⏎Here is a story that will keep you fascinated, not only in connection with its excellence of science, understandable by everyone, but by the fast-moving action for which this well-known author is famous.⏎Invisibility in this sort of story is perhaps not a new idea; but we venture to say that no one can foretell the O. Henry-like ending, which is as unexpected as it is dramatic.</em></p>

<p>The excerpt by the Mystery Author in <a href="TheJourneyContinues.xhtml" class="text-italic">The Journey Continues</a> originally appeared in <em>Galaxy Science Fiction</em>, September 1952. Extensive research found no evidence that the U.S. copyright for this publication was renewed.</p>

<hr class="asterism"/>

<p>The <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rule_of_the_shorter_term">rule of shorter term</a> applies to the following countries and regions:</p>

<blockquote>
<p>Albania, Algeria, Andorra (if public domain in the country of origin on the date the transitional provision entered force, 1999), Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Armenia (if public domain in the country of origin on the date article 45 entered force, 2006), Bangladesh, Belarus (while party to Berne Convention, 2008), Bhutan, Canada (for foreign works of joint authorship, except for countries party to the Canada–United States–Mexico Agreement, i.e. U.S. and Mexico), China (if public domain in the country of origin on the date of commencement of the Act, 2010), Dominican Republic, EU members (with the exception of Germany, and only towards non-European Union members), Guatemala, Guinea-Bissau, Honduras, Hong Kong, India (for countries designated in <a href="https://www.wipo.int/wipolex/en/legislation/details/22949">official schedule</a>), Israel, Japan, Macau, New Zealand (if public domain in the country of origin on the date of commencement of the Act, 15 Dec 1994), Norway, Pakistan (for countries designated in <a href="https://www.wipo.int/wipolex/en/legislation/details/3482">official schedule</a>), Russian Federation, Singapore, Suriname, Taiwan, Tanzania, Thailand, Timor-Leste, United Kingdom (unless simultaneously published in the United Kingdom).</p>
</blockquote>

<p>Furthermore, the rule of shorter term also applies to all overseas territories of the countries where the rule of shorter term applies:</p>

<blockquote>
<p>The Kingdom of Denmark: Faroe Islands; Greenland.</p>

<p>Finland: Åland is an autonomous and demilitarised region of Finland.</p>

<p>Overseas France: Clipperton Island; French Guiana; French Polynesia; French Southern and Antarctic Lands; Guadeloupe; Martinique; Mayotte; New Caledonia; Réunion; Saint Barthélemy; Saint Martin; Saint Pierre and Miquelon; Wallis and Futuna.</p>

<p>Constituent countries of the Kingdom of the Netherlands: Aruba; Curaçao; Sint Maarten.</p>

<p>The Realm of New Zealand: Cook Islands; Niue; Ross Dependency; Tokelau.</p>

<p>Dependent territories of Norway: Bouvet Island; Queen Maud Land; Peter I Island.</p>

<p>The Crown Dependencies of the United Kingdom: the Bailiwick of Jersey; the Bailiwick of Guernsey; the Isle of Man. The 14 British Overseas Territories: Akrotiri and Dhekelia; Anguilla; Bermuda; British Antarctic Territory; British Indian Ocean Territory; British Virgin Islands; Cayman Islands; Falkland Islands; Gibraltar; Montserrat; Pitcairn Islands; Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha; South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands; Turks and Caicos Islands.</p>

<p>Insular Areas of the United States and Freely Associated States: American Samoa; Guam; the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands; the Republic of the Marshall Islands; the Federated States of Micronesia; the Republic of Palau; Puerto Rico; the U.S. Virgin Islands.</p>
</blockquote>

<hr class="asterism"/>

<p>The <em>TeX Gyre Heros</em> family of sans-serif fonts is based on URW Nimbus Sans L. The original font, Helvetica, was created by Max Miedinger (with Eduard Hoffmann) in 1957 at the Haas Type Foundry. TeX Gyre Heros may be used as a substitute for Adobe Helvetica in documents.</p>

<p>The <em>TeX Gyre Cursor</em> family of fonts is based on URW Nimbus Mono L. The original font, IBM Courier, was designed in 1955 by Howard G. “Bud” Kettler.</p>

<p>These fonts are licensed under the <a href="https://ctan.org/license/gfl">GUST Font License (GFL)</a>, which is based on the <a href="https://www.latex-project.org/lppl/">LaTeX Project Public License (LPPL)</a> with adjustments for free fonts. The LPPL is a recognized <a href="https://www.debian.org/intro/free">free software license</a>.</p>

<p><em>Noto</em> is a global font collection for writing in all modern and ancient languages. <em>Noto Sans Runic</em> is an unmodulated (“sans serif”) design for texts in the historical European Runic script. It has 94 glyphs. Copyright 2022 The Noto Project Authors.</p>

<p>The <em>Comfortaa</em> font was designed by Johan Aakerlund. Copyright 2011 The Comfortaa Project.</p>

<p>These fonts are licensed under the <a href="https://openfontlicense.org/">Open Font License</a>, which allows use in any product or project—print or digital, commercial or otherwise.</p>

<hr class="asterism"/>

<p>All texts and illustrations not explicitly declared as being in the public domain are copyright 2024 by Eduard Pech.</p>

<p>The complete edition is copyright 2024 by Logophilia.</p>
