<lea:title>The Journey Continues</lea:title>
<lea:author file-as="Pech, Eduard">Eduard Pech</lea:author>
<lea:rights><p>The excerpt by the Mystery Author in
    <em><lea:link>The Journey Continues</lea:link></em>
    originally appeared in <em>Galaxy Science Fiction</em>, September 1952.
    Extensive research found no evidence that the U.S. copyright
    for this publication was renewed.</p></lea:rights>





<lea:image source="new-jou-01-512.jpg"><lea:caption/></lea:image>

<h1 id="the-journey-continues" title="The Journey Continues" class="heading">The Journey Continues</h1>

<p>Welcome, fellow astronauts, to a glimpse of what awaits in the next issue of “The Pitch Science Fiction”, brought to you by Logophilia. Prepare to venture beyond the stars as we embark on the next chapter of our cosmic odyssey. The story that follows is a tantalizing preview, offering only a glimpse of the adventures yet to unfold in the pages of our upcoming publication. Please note that this excerpt is incomplete, leaving much to the imagination until the full tale is revealed. Join us as we journey into the unknown, where the mysteries of the universe await discovery and the boundaries of imagination are pushed ever further. Get ready to soar to new heights—our voyage continues, and the wonders of the cosmos await.</p>

<p>About the mystery author in this issue: This American writer, was a pioneering figure in mid-20th-century science fiction. Known for combining a background in biochemistry and psychology with literary skills, this author explored complex themes like consciousness and the societal effects of scientific progress. Notably, the work often featured intellectually formidable protagonists and delved into evolutionary and sociological questions. Early recognition included a Hugo Award for a story about telepathy. Despite not achieving widespread mainstream fame, this author’s innovative storytelling and focus on the human condition have left a lasting impact on the genre.</p>

<lea:section class="heading">An Amazing Story by Mystery Author</lea:section>

<p>“All right,” I said, “what <em>is</em> sociology good for?”</p>

<p>Wilton Caswell, Ph.D., was head of my Sociology Department, and right then he was mad enough to chew nails. On the office wall behind him were three or four framed documents in Latin that were supposed to be signs of great learning, but I didn’t care at that moment if he papered the walls with his degrees. I had been appointed dean and president to see to it that the university made money. I had a job to do, and I meant to do it.</p>

<p>He bit off each word with great restraint: “Sociology is the study of social institutions, Mr. Halloway.”</p>

<p>I tried to make him understand my position. “Look, it’s the big-money men who are supposed to be contributing to the support of this college. To them, sociology sounds like socialism—nothing can sound worse than that—and an institution is where they put Aunt Maggy when she began collecting Wheaties in a stamp album. We can’t appeal to them that way. Come on now.” I smiled condescendingly, knowing it would irritate him. “What are you doing that’s worth anything?”</p>

<p>He glared at me, his white hair bristling and his nostrils dilated like a war horse about to whinny. I can say one thing for them—these scientists and professors always keep themselves well under control. He had a book in his hand and I was expecting him to throw it, but he spoke instead:</p>

<p>“This department’s analysis of institutional accretion, by the use of open system mathematics, has been recognized as an outstanding and valuable contribution to—”</p>

<p>The words were impressive, whatever they meant, but this still didn’t sound like anything that would pull in money. I interrupted, “Valuable in what way?”</p>

<p>He sat down on the edge of his desk thoughtfully, apparently recovering from the shock of being asked to produce something solid for his position, and ran his eyes over the titles of the books that lined his office walls.</p>

<p>“Well, sociology has been valuable to business in initiating worker efficiency and group motivation studies, which they now use in management decisions. And, of course, since the depression, Washington has been using sociological studies of employment, labor and standards of living as a basis for its general policies of—”</p>

<p>I stopped him with both raised hands. “Please, Professor Caswell! That would hardly be a recommendation. Washington, the New Deal and the present Administration are somewhat touchy subjects to the men I have to deal with. They consider its value debatable, if you know what I mean. If they got the idea that sociology professors are giving advice and guidance—No, we have to stick to brass tacks and leave Washington out of this. What, specifically, has the work of this specific department done that would make it as worthy to receive money as—say, a heart disease research fund?”</p>

<p>He began to tap the corner of his book absently on the desk, watching me. “Fundamental research doesn’t show immediate effects, Mr. Halloway, but its value is recognized.”</p>

<p>I smiled and took out my pipe. “All right, tell me about it. Maybe I’ll recognize its value.”</p>

<p>Prof. Caswell smiled back tightly. He knew his department was at stake. The other departments were popular with donors and pulled in gift money by scholarships and fellowships, and supported their professors and graduate students by research contracts with the government and industry. Caswell had to show a way to make his own department popular—or else. I couldn’t fire him directly, of course, but there are ways of doing it indirectly.</p>
