<lea:title>The Journey Continues</lea:title>
<lea:author file-as="Pech, Eduard [Eduard Pech]">Eduard Pech</lea:author>
<lea:rights><p>The work quoted in <em><lea:link>The Journey Continues</lea:link></em>
   is in the public domain in the United States because it was legally published
  within the United States (or the United Nations Headquarters in New York
  subject to Section 7 of the United States Headquarters Agreement) before 1964,
  and copyright was not renewed.</p></lea:rights>





<lea:image source="the-journey-continues.jpg"><lea:caption/></lea:image>

<h1 class="heading">The Journey Continues</h1>

<p class="heading"><em>by Mystery Author</em></p>

<p>Welcome, fellow astronauts, to a glimpse of what awaits in the next issue of “The Pitch Science Fiction”, brought to you by Logophilia. Prepare to venture beyond the stars as we embark on the next chapter of our cosmic odyssey. The story that follows is a tantalizing preview, offering only a glimpse of the adventures yet to unfold in the pages of our upcoming publication. Please note that this excerpt is incomplete, leaving much to the imagination until the full tale is revealed. Join us as we journey into the unknown, where the mysteries of the universe await discovery and the boundaries of imagination are pushed ever further. Get ready to soar to new heights—our voyage continues, and the wonders of the cosmos await.</p>

<p>About the mystery author in this issue: A pioneering voice in speculative fiction, this author charted vivid realms of adventure where ancient mysteries meet futuristic frontiers. With tales that blend the eerie allure of forgotten worlds, the tension of interstellar trade, and the awakening of uncanny powers within unlikely heroes, this writer’s stories carved out a unique space. Often weaving together threads of archaeology, telepathy, and high-stakes exploration, this author created deeply atmospheric narratives that spoke to readers across generations. The imaginative reach spanned stars and centuries—and continues to spark wonder in those who discover the works today. If the name hasn’t yet emerged from the shadows of memory, it will be revealed in the next issue.</p>

<lea:section class="heading">An Amazing Story by Mystery Author</lea:section>

<p>Across the lock of the panel was the seal set in place by Van Rycke before the spacer had lifted from Sargol. Under Dane’s inspection it showed no crack. To all evidence the hatch had not been opened since they left the perfumed planet. And yet the hunting Hoobat was sure that the invading pests were within.</p>

<p>It took only a second for Dane to commit an act which, if he could not defend it later, would blacklist him out of space. He twisted off the official seal which should remain there while the freighter was space borne.</p>

<p>With Ali’s help he shouldered aside the heavy sliding panel and they looked into the cargo space, now filled with the red wood from Sargol. The redwood! When he saw it Dane was struck with their stupidity. Aside from the Koros stones in the stone box, only the wood had come from the Salariki world. What if the pests had not been planted by I-S agents, but were natives of Sargol being brought in with the wood?</p>

<p>The men remained at the hatch to allow the Hoobat freedom in its hunt. And Sinbad crouched behind them, snarling and giving voice to a rumbling growl which was his negative opinion of the proceedings.</p>

<p>They were conscious of an odor—the sharp, unidentifiable scent Dane had noticed during the loading of the wood. It was not unpleasant—merely different. And <span id="anchor-149"></span>it—or something—had an electrifying effect upon Queex. The blue hunter climbed with the aid of its claws to the top of the nearest pile of wood and there settled down. For a space it was apparently contemplating the area about it.</p>

<p>Then it raised its claws and began the scraping fiddle which once before had drawn its prey out of hiding. Oddly enough that dry rasp of sound had a quieting effect upon Sinbad and Dane felt the drag of the harness lessen as the cat moved, not toward escape, but to the scene of action, humping himself at last in the open panel, his round eyes fixed upon the Hoobat with a fascinated stare.</p>

<p>Scrape-scrape—the monotonous noise bit into the ears of the men, gnawed at their nerves.</p>

<p>“Ahhh—” Ali kept his voice to a whisper, but his hand jerked to draw their attention to the right at deck level. Dane saw that flicker along a log. The stowaway pest was now the same brilliant color as the wood, indistinguishable until it moved, which probably explained how it had come on board.</p>

<p>But that was only the first arrival. A second flash of movement and a third followed. Then the hunted remained stationary, able to resist for a period the insidious summoning of Queex. The Hoobat maintained an attitude of indifference, of being so wrapped in its music that nothing else existed.</p>
