<lea:title>Preface by the Editor</lea:title>
<lea:author>Eduard Pech</lea:author>




    <h1 title="Preface by the Editor" class="heading">Preface by the Editor</h1>

<p>As we open a new year with this first quarterly issue of 2026, I find myself reflecting on how far this series has come, and how much it owes to you, our readers. Almost two years ago, we began with a simple ambition: to revive the finest short-form science fiction from the golden age while making room for bold new voices. Your enthusiasm, your downloads, your borrows in Kindle Unlimited, and your quiet but steady support have turned that ambition into something far more enduring. For that, I am deeply grateful.</p>

<p>This issue marks a gentle turning point, and it feels right to share two small but meaningful changes with you here, in the spirit of transparency that has always guided the project.</p>

<p>First, beginning with this volume, we are moving away from a fixed count of ten stories per quarterly issue and toward a new guiding principle: a minimum of approximately 150,000 words of curated science fiction. Some issues may run a little longer, particularly when an exceptional novella or longer classic demands inclusion; but the goal is consistency of substance rather than strict uniformity of count. We want every quarterly edition to feel like a complete, satisfying journey: substantial enough to lose yourself in for days, yet carefully selected so that every story earns its place. Your time is precious, and we intend to honor it with collections that deliver real depth and lasting impact.</p>

<p>Second, as the series matures, we will begin a modest tiered pricing adjustment for earlier issues. Starting with our upcoming anniversary edition, volumes that reach their one-year anniversary will move to $1.99, and those that reach two years will settle at $0.99. The newest issues will remain at their current price, ensuring that the latest collections continue to feel fresh and fairly valued. This gentle step is our way of thanking longtime readers, inviting new ones to discover the back catalog without barrier, and keeping the entire series accessible as it grows. In an age of endless content, we hope this makes it easier for curious explorers to step aboard wherever they like and then travel forward, or backward, through the full arc.</p>

<p>None of this would matter without you. Whether you have been with us since the very first issue or have only just found us, your presence is what keeps these stories alive. Thank you for reading, for borrowing, for sharing, and for trusting us with your imagination.</p>

<p>Here’s to another year of bold ideas, strange worlds, and the quiet wonder that only science fiction can offer.</p>

<p>With gratitude,</p>
<p>Editor</p>
<p>February 2026</p>
