<lea:title>M2</lea:title>
<lea:author file-as="Skrinitsa, Daria [Daria Skrinitsa]">Daria Skrinitsa</lea:author>
<lea:rights><p><em><lea:link>M2</lea:link></em> by <lea:link>Daria Skrinitsa</lea:link>
  is copyright 2025 by Eduard Pech. The story is included in this anthology by permission.
  <em>M2</em> was originally published in Russian
  and is copyright by Daria Skrinitsa.</p></lea:rights>
<lea:blurb><p>The world ended not with a bang, but with a shift. Now, humanity’s remnants
  exist as animals: a bear, a tortoise, a cheetah, a nightingale, and a tomcat among them.
  Their survival hinges on breaching a fortified factory, a desperate gamble for dwindling resources.
  But amidst the struggle for food and safety, a chilling truth emerges: their extinction wasn’t natural.
  A lone eagle arrives with a message—a warning of alien terraforming and a perilous mission to reclaim Earth.
  Bound together by instinct and a flicker of hope, this unlikely pack must confront
  not only the dangers of a shattered world but also the terrifying possibility
  that humanity’s fate rests on their paws and wings.</p></lea:blurb>
<lea:subject>Science fiction</lea:subject>





<lea:image source="m2-new-02-512.jpg"><lea:caption/></lea:image>

<h1 class="heading">M2</h1>

<p class="heading"><em>by <lea:link>Daria Skrinitsa</lea:link></em></p>

<p>I raised my gaze to the factory, a hulking gray presence against the bruised sky—and felt a nervous twitch ripple through my tail. The mission seemed straightforward enough: breach the perimeter, unlock the gates from within, let everyone else follow. But we had few good choices.</p>

<p>Veniamin went first. A bear, naturally; brute force was the obvious answer. He threw himself at the gates, but the old man struggled. Even for a bear, his body wasn’t what it used to be; he couldn’t shatter the iron bars sunk into concrete. The result was a throbbing shoulder. Kristina did what she could, but there wasn’t much she could do inside a Yorkie’s body, even for a vet. She offered diagnosis and carefully considered dosages... but bandaging a bear’s bruises was simply impossible.</p>

<p>Günther wasn’t even considered. The Austrian was nearing ninety and had chosen to spend his remaining years as a tortoise, slowly circumnavigating the globe with an assistant. Why had he come here, to this desolate place? His assistant had also been his interpreter, and she’d been lost along with everyone else.</p>

<p>I leaped onto the fence, carefully squeezing through the barbed wire, and scanned the gates. With the power out, magnetic locks were useless, but these were secured with heavy bolts on the inside—bolts that needed someone like Veniamin to open them. Which meant he’d have to get inside first.</p>

<p>Then there was Bair. He’d been chasing a junkie during the disaster, a man trying to cut across the wasteland. He abandoned his car and shifted into a cheetah, even catching up to tackle the runner—one last act as a police officer. Bair was an exceptional combat unit: a predator, a skilled beat cop—a beast. Having Veniamin and Bair with us was enough to scare off other packs, though they weren’t much help with anything delicate.</p>

<p>Come to think of it, having them with us was also the reason our food supplies were dwindling. They’d systematically cleared out apartments and stores, eliminating every stray dog they found. Now we relied on warehouses and factories, a declining resource. A long-term problem.</p>

<p>But we didn’t bring it up again. We didn’t want to hurt Veniamin’s feelings. The old circus performer had spent almost his entire farewell show performing acrobatics as a chimpanzee, only deciding to become a bear at the very last moment. It hadn’t been planned. He’d simply felt like it. Victory Day was nearing, a Russian bear... and then everything changed. He’d never forgiven himself for that impulse. If he hadn’t acted on a whim, we would have had a large, agile, strong animal with functional hands in our pack.</p>

<p>It was down to Lydia and me now. She’d been caught by Second-May at a concert, a nightingale able to slip through almost any opening. Those delicate legs and small beak offered little help.</p>

<p>And I, in a tomcat’s body, could actually accomplish something.</p>

<p>Circling the factory grounds, I committed their layout to memory; the secondary gates were bolted shut, reinforced with heavy steel. Only a small side gate had a simple padlock, and the key was on the skeleton of a guard.</p>

<p>Twice I sprang at the lock, the key clenched between my teeth. It wouldn’t catch, so I tried to drag a rolling chair from the security booth, hoping to use it as scaffolding to reach high enough to work the key in. I even knocked the skeleton off its seat. But the chair wouldn’t budge.</p>

<p>It was a shame Alisa hadn’t lived to see this. She read fortunes in a raven’s body that day, and we valued her above all others. Ravens are surprisingly strong for birds: agile enough to open doors, even cans. Mostly, though, it was her ability to talk; she talked us through so many crises during the early chaos!</p>

<p>Then she risked shifting back into human form... and died instantly. That’s how we learned Second-May hadn’t released us—whatever Second-May was...</p>

<p>After wrestling with the chair, I was exhausted and starving. I decided to climb inside the factory and look for something to eat. There was a storage annex, but the main building was closer. There had to be scraps left on the lines, half-processed feed piled at the ends of the belts, abandoned when the world... stopped.</p>

<p>The heap beneath the motionless conveyor belt turned out to be substantial. But it was all bird feed. Well, at least enough to keep Lydia going for a while. Further inside, I discovered stacks of dog food packed for shipping. I could have searched for cat food, but we didn’t have time for luxuries; the others were hungry, too.</p>

<p>I ripped open the tape with my claws, tearing into a few boxes. The big ten-kilogram bags stayed sealed; better to haul those back to our den intact. A box of smaller, 1.5-kilogram packets caught my eye; I punctured one and took a bite. The taste... well, it wasn’t Purr-Elite in crab-flavored jelly, but food is food. Picky eaters don’t last long out here.</p>

<p>A shiver ran down my spine at the thought of lifespan, fur bristling along my neck. Angry now, I shook it off. Screw the defeatism—I would live.</p>

<p>Licking my whiskers, I ran outside. Three plans were already forming in my head. The bolts weren’t horizontal; they lowered vertically. That meant if we could find a cable with a hook, or any workable substitute, we could snag the bolts, toss the cable over the top of the gate, and then our heavies could haul them up together. If that failed, we’d dig: I’d already found three spots not covered with concrete or asphalt. Yes, it would take longer. But we’d manage. Me, Bair, and Kristina.</p>

<p>If it took much longer, Veniamin would have to force the side gate. His shoulder should be feeling better by then, strong enough for one good shove. We’d made a mistake; we should have scouted first. But we started with the main gates, hoping to gain entrance fast.</p>

<p>I didn’t bother with another sweep. Instead, I ran along the fence line, weaving through the barbed wire—it felt like running inside a tunnel—until I found the guys and dropped down beside them. Bair immediately spat out the little alphabet book he’d been holding in his teeth. We used a proper dictionary back home, but it was too heavy for expeditions.</p>

<p>Lydia was already flipping through the pages. We’d learned the hard way: this job practically had Lydia’s name on it. I tapped the letters with my paw as concisely as possible, guiding her through the book.</p>

<p><em>R-O-P-E</em>, I meowed, indicating a space, <em>H-O-O-K</em>. Another meow. <em>F-I-N-D</em>.</p>

<p>I closed the book, nodded at Lydia and ran back toward the main gates. She launched after me, her wings beating sharply in the unsettling silence of the dead city. I traced an arc over the gate with my head and meowed. She whistled a sharp reply and sped off to search the grounds. We’d come so far, reinventing how we talked: our eyes and gestures spoke clearer than speech ever could.</p>

<p>A few minutes later, Lydia returned. She’d found a suitable rope with a hook attached in one of the outbuildings. Honestly, if Alisa were here, she would have had that rope secured already. Or at least gotten Kristina over the gate, and then the four of us could have managed it easily. But doing it between the two of us, with weightless Lydia... it was exhausting work. It took forty minutes.</p>

<p>Forty minutes... A relentless calculator clicked away inside my head—an unavoidable habit for any shifter. The lifespan of a domestic cat is fifteen years. In forty minutes, a human body ages roughly one ten-thousandth of a percent, based on an average life expectancy of eighty years. But a cat ages five ten-thousandths in the same time. And I’d even drawn a relatively decent lifespan, because nightingales live three years in the wild and ten in captivity with proper care. Lydia was already well past fifty in human years. Proper care wasn’t an option, not with Kristina’s limitations. Maybe a year left, at best. Bair probably not much longer either. Domestic cheetahs live twenty years, wild ones rarely survive beyond three years.</p>

<p>I shivered, clamping the hook between my teeth and scrambling onto the lower latch, then the upper one. Lydia was already on the other side of the gate, her quick chirps neat little pauses in our code, relaying the plan to the pack. We tried to keep the Morse code minimal; it carried too easily on the wind, and the Farbankers, our closest rival pack, had unnervingly good ears.</p>

<p>I wedged the hook between the latch and the gate’s worn surface, then spat it out with a clatter, against the asphalt. Dropping to the ground, I took hold of the rope in my teeth and began backing up, trying to get the rising hook to catch. It snagged on the fourth attempt, but then I was stuck: suspended, weight pulling against the line. Now I needed to get the other end over the gate, but releasing any tension meant the hook would fall.</p>

<p>A moment of thought, then I ran in a wide arc toward the wall, keeping the rope tight, then retreated along it, creating distance from the gate. Far enough to jump over without losing the loop. A few steps, paws digging into the rope, repositioning my jaw, a few more steps.... Finally, I figured I’d moved back enough, clamped down harder, and launched myself onto the fence.</p>

<p>And ran headfirst into another problem. Now I had to drag the rope along the barbed wire, back toward the gate. It felt like an eternity, working past each loop, shifting paws and jaws, inching the rope forward.</p>

<p>God, how I missed having normal fingers!</p>

<p>Only the final part remained. The end of the rope still dangled on the inside, and I needed to pull it through without dropping the hook. A straight drop was impossible; I was holding everything taut, hanging there like a fried hamster caught on a live wire.</p>

<p>Before I could plan it out, a distant eagle’s cry sliced through the air, and every head in the pack snapped toward the sound; everyone except Günther, safe at home.</p>

<p>The eagle was broadcasting continuous Morse code—a message any sentient being would understand.</p>

<p>“M2.”</p>

<p>May 2<sup>nd</sup>. Disaster Day. The day humanity blinked out of existence, leaving only those caught mid-shift. Like Kristina, desperately trying to calm a frantic terrier at her clinic. Back then, I was climbing a tree for my sneakers, tossed up there by that jerk Goshan from parallel class. Funny thing is, thinking about it now, he probably saved my life.</p>

<p>“M2M2M2M2,” the call bounced off the skeletal buildings. The eagle wheeled high above, a dark silhouette scanning for the living.</p>

<p>I heard the eight voices of the Farbankers answer—a rough chorus sounding pretty good, even with three dogs among them. But our pack held the only bird left in the city. Lydia launched herself skyward, her cry of “M2” raw and urgent, and the distant speck that was the eagle began to pivot toward us.</p>

<p>A bald eagle. Twenty years wild, thirty-five spent in captivity—someone got lucky. The visitor wasted no time on formalities, quickly sizing up the situation before snatching the rope from my paws. We’d all learned the value of speed, and we didn’t need words to understand that urgency. Then Bair and Veniamin dug their teeth into the rope and pulled. It stretched taut, then went slack with a muffled thud behind the gates. A happy trill escaped me as I started forming another loop when the eagle finished the job in seconds flat, and soon the heavy metal gate groaned open.</p>

<p>Everyone surged forward to scavenge, but I remained, trying to communicate. The eagle grumbled something, annoyance laced through their tone as it regarded our makeshift alphabet. It jabbed a claw at the letters: <em>А-И-И-А</em>. I shook my head.</p>

<p>They showed the letters again, flipping the И upside down, then returning the final А to its normal orientation. And then it clicked! This wasn’t any ordinary local eagle: it was a female, she came from somewhere they used Latin letters, and her name was Anna. I nodded enthusiastically, then indicated the letters back to her:</p>

<p><em>C-O-M-E</em>. Fortunately, some of the letters overlap in Cyrillic and Latin. She caught on by the second letter and began helping me flip the pages. I paused, adding: <em>H-O-M-E</em>. And finally: <em>M-Y</em>. A simple invitation to our den. She clearly knew English; she nodded and didn’t fly away. After a moment, I nudged the alphabet toward her again, spelling out <em>E-A-T</em> and gesturing toward the factory. Anna shook her head, then located the page with the letter Ы and poked it with her beak at a drawing of a mouse. Clear enough: she’d been hunting on the journey here.</p>

<p>Once everyone had eaten their fill, Veniamin and Bair loaded as much food as they could manage into the trailer we’d prepared, hitched it up, and began hauling it toward our sanctuary. The unloading was grueling, but I barely registered it; I was too consumed with wanting to talk to Anna. Even the nagging worry that our guest might have drawn the attention of the Farbankers, who would soon realize we’d broken into the factory, receded into the background.</p>

<p>The shelter was crammed with communication tools. In one room, Alisa had meticulously scratched three alphabets onto the floor with her beak: Cyrillic, Latin, and Kazakh—Bair insisted. Rows of numbers, mathematical symbols, and punctuation marched alongside the alphabets... and then there were Alisa’s drawings: explicit depictions of male and female anatomy, coupled and otherwise. The fortune teller was a terrible swearer and insisted you couldn’t really communicate without including those depictions. Beyond that, there was chalk, a chalkboard, a globe, and stacks of foreign language dictionaries.</p>

<lea:image source="m2-new-01-512.jpg">
<lea:caption>Rows of numbers, mathematical symbols, and punctuation marched alongside the alphabets...</lea:caption>
</lea:image>

<p>Anna spelled out her name first, and I rendered it into Cyrillic. Kristina spoke English perfectly well, but somehow I ended up as the interpreter. Then Anna tapped a sharp claw against the globe, landing on Canada. She ignored the English–Russian dictionary I gestured to with a paw and began rapidly hopping across the Latin letters.</p>

<p>I translated: <em>Do you know what happened?</em> Everyone shook their heads.</p>

<p>Something had to have happened. It was the apocalypse, after all. If she was asking ... that meant something more was at play. Anna continued, pacing restlessly between the floor markings and the dictionaries, and with each translation, my jaw felt looser, my eyes constantly flicking to her as she nodded fiercely, urging me on.</p>

<p><em>M2—alien attack. Ship over Oregon, USA. Hovering. WMD hitting humans. Only sentient species. Annihilation. No humans—no resistance. Weak. Die easy. We fought. They built something. Began a week ago.</em> I froze. She let out an indignant screech and smacked me on the head with her wing, as if to say, <em>keep going</em>. So I did. <em>Terraforming has begun.</em></p>

<p>We had to explain terraforming to Veniamin. I raced back and forth between the letters, barely processing the words myself. Insane. Aliens? Was this some kind of joke? On May 2<sup>nd</sup>, our lives had been irrevocably shattered, and it felt like nothing could further destabilize us. Yet here we are: aliens. Really? We hadn’t known a thing. Then, the speed with which global awareness collapsed ... it was terrifying.</p>

<p>Anna didn’t let up...</p>

<p><em>They plant poles. Energy chain connects. Form ring, toxic air inside. Another pole up, ring grows. Few of us left. Many lost. Releasing alien fauna now. Not too late. Searching allies. Knock poles down, restore air. Recon team knows how to</em>—Anna slammed a claw onto the drawing of fucking—<em>their WMD.</em></p>

<p>Swallowing my disbelief, I tried to keep my voice steady. <em>How?</em></p>

<p>Anna said, <em>Found monkeys. Form team. Build raft.</em> She tapped the Bering Strait on the globe. <em>Need all.</em></p>

<p>The Canadian hopped across Alisa’s most favorite drawings again, then collapsed against the wall, exhausted.</p>

<p>A heavy silence settled over us. Bair walked to the alphabet chart and traced, cautiously, the letters <em>C-U-C...,</em> then a question mark.</p>

<p>Everyone fell quiet again. Maybe she had gone a little cuckoo. Our kind got weird ideas sometimes. But something had killed people. Something that hadn’t touched us. And even if the idea was nuts, damn it—at least it gave us something to aim for. Not endlessly hauling dog food and bracing for the slow decay of old age, but an objective, a purpose. I’m barely twenty. Thirty-five would be a good run. To end up shriveled and alone, never uttering a single human word to anyone I truly cared for. Never kissing Kristina, let alone...</p>

<p>But what if Anna <em>was</em> telling the truth?</p>

<p>I lifted my head and saw the fire catch in my friends’ eyes. Lydia started to whistle <em>The Sacred War</em>. The predators nodded, teeth flashing in savage approval. Günther was clueless, but there was no way we were leaving him.</p>

<p>Anna, the Canadian, once again joyfully hopped across Alisa’s favorite drawings.</p>

<p><em>We’ll take the Farbankers. And the Centralites. And the Dagestanians. We’ll take them all.</em> I bounded exultantly over Alisa’s infamous filth—those sketches she’d insisted were vital to comms—then tapped out:</p>

<p><em>Hell yeah.</em></p>

<lea:block>tpsf-9-cta.xhtml</lea:block>
